---
title: The 2024 Booklist
date: April 2nd 2024
---

*The following is a list of all of the books I read in 2024, in the order that they were read*

___


**With the Old Breed, by Eugene Sledge**

*Genre: Biography, War, Military, World War II*

*Release Year: 1981*

Well known for being "the book that inspired *The Pacific*, a popular HBO series", this biography is, simply, a distillation of the horrors and inhumanity of war, and its effects on the young men who experienced it, split across encounters on the Pacific islands of Pavuvu, Peleliu, and Okinawa. A very impactful read, that successfully conjures up the images both of the bloody horrors of the battlefield and the torturous conditions of simply existing on the tiny island and islets of the Palau and Solomons. 



**The Great Game, by Peter Hopkirk**

*Genre: History, Spy, Military, British History*

*Release Year: 1990*

A documentary record of the British-side of the Anglo-Russian conflicts in Central Asia in the 19th Century detailing a wide range of clashes between the great powers and their intermediaries and proxies. Starting with (and later detailing further) the demise of a pair of unfortunate emisarries in Bukhara, through the detailing of Russian aggression in Iran (then Persia) and the Caucasus, the first and second Anglo-Afghan wars, and finishing upon the subversion (of both sides) in the East Asian territories of Tibet and Mongolia. The stories told within are tales of extraordinary heroism and adventure (see: the Chapter on the Siege of Chitral and the heroic relief effort of Col. James Kelly and his mountaineering Sikh expeditionary force) - documenting the ingenuity of a people whose countries were once stuck in a headlong expansion into uncharted territory - as well as the inhumanity and intolerance of men towards their fellow men. Hopkirk's telling of the history is gripping, immensely visual, more so than any history book I've read in recent years, but his approach to the stories are inevitably Anglo-centric. I would need to read around and find some drier, impartial, or even Russo-centric, sources to know whether his claims about the intentions of the Russians, and his thoughts about contemporary Russian sources, are well-founded or not. It would also be interesting to hear derivations of stories told from the perspective of those people, both defiant and opportunistic, stuck between the two bulls, horns-locked. 

Overall, *The Great Game* was a very insightful and thoroughly enjoyable read. It touches on an important but criminally overlooked (in the modern era) period in British history. Written during the dying years of the Soviet Union, it may be read today wherein parallels can easily be drawn between the expansionism of the Russian Empire and the behaviour of the Russian state in the 21st Century. I would recommend it to any fans of the genre. 


**British Rail, by Christian Wolmar**

*Genre: History, Transport, Railway*

*Release Year: 2022*

Christian Wolmar writes and orates articles and podcast, often with a pessamistic outlook, on the state of the British railways. His [website](www.christianwolmar.co.uk) is chock-a-block with articles that are worth your time, yet, his full-fledged offering seems to be aimed at the most fanatical of trainspotters. *British Rail* spans over 400-pages and details the history of British Rail(ways) from its inception at the merger of the disparate train engine operators in the late-steam-era to the breaking-up and privitisation of the railways in the 90's. This is a block of time that spans the transitioning away from steam, the removal of some approximately 5000 miles of track and 67,700 BR jobs in the Beeching cuts, and the electrification of major railway lines (or lack thereof). This *should* make for an exciting read but, whether it is because of reading this directly after Hopkirk's *The Great Game*, or whether I was lost in the depths of transport realpolitik - trying to remember which Transport Minister did what and when, that I didn't particularly fall in love with the way this story was told.

I cannot deny that Wolmar, evidently, knows his stuff and knows how to convey both the history of British Rail and the arguments against both it and the privitisation model that followed. He makes compelling points labelled decisively what the government got wrong - namely, the insistence that British railways, alone among all others in Europe, should turn a profit for private shareholders rather than provide the best service to the public - as well as how things could have been different, under different circumstances. That being said, I think his articles have made many of these points before in a much more succinct manner.

If you're a fan of the railway, I would recommend this one, if not, then it might still be up your street if you're interested in knowing where things all went wrong.


**The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, by Haruki Murakami**

*Genre: Fiction, Magical-Realism*

*Release Year: 1994*

A tale about one man's search for a cat. To say anything more would be to spoil a great portion of a great book. Go ahead and grab yourself a copy if you're looking for something compelling but a little *out-there*.


___


**Blindness, by José Saramago**

*Genre: Fiction, Apocalypse, Horror*

*Release Year: 1995*

